---
layout: post
title: "Thoughts the help experience"
date: 2014-11-20 04:30:00
excerpt: "By the time a user seeks help, they’ve likely already had a negative experience, to some degree. It should be obvious, then, that requesting and getting assistance needs to be easy, responsive, predictable, frictionless and as positive an experience as possible."
image: "/images/blog/devices.jpg"
image-caption: 'Photo Credit: <a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/74105777@N00/6152947625/">adactio</a> via <a href="http://compfight.com">Compfight</a> <a href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0/">cc</a>'
comments: true
---
I’m perusing a popular creative content platform. I need graphic elements to complement a design project, and this platform has helped me find appropriate content in the past, from typefaces and textures, to hand-drawn imagery. Once again, I find a couple of pieces that are a perfect fit for my project, so decide to to ahead and make a purchase.

So I try to log in, and I get an error saying my username and password do not match. This is odd, because I use a password manager to generate and store unique, secure passwords. I don’t give that much thought, however, and click the ever-faithful _password reset_ link. That part is typical enough; wait for email, click on link, generate new password, submit form, save the generated password to the password manager database. But then I get the same error when I try to log in with the new credentials.

{.callout} It was time for a support request, a.k.a. “the worse time to give customers a hard time.”

And _that’s_ how my first ever negative experience with this previously trouble-free provider begun.

I looked at the masthead and saw no _Help_ link, button or mention, even. No _About_ link to speak of, either. I did notice a _Community_ link with a helpful reverse caret beside it, indicating a dropdown menu. So I hover over that to find a bunch of community-related links. While none of them seemed _Help_-related, I did notice that each of them linked to a simple, predictable URI schema. That is: the _Blog_ link pointed to a `/blog` URI, and the _Discussions_ link pointed to a `/discussions` URI. So, naturally, I tried `/help`. No dice. There is no help to be found at `/help`.

_:sigh:_ OK, I thought, I’ll just email them.

I checked the reset password email and noticed that it came from a _hello@domain_ email. Seems friendly enough, I’ll just reply to that. After all, that email was sent as part of a password reset request that resulted from an unsuccessful login attempt; surely replies to this email message can be expected, if does not resolve the issue that prompted it. Alas, my support request was met with a message indicating that Delivery to _noreply@domain…_ failed permanently. Wait, whut? `noreply`? Well, that was silly of me, why would I send an email to that address? I thought I had replied to an email that came from a `hello` address; I must be going mad. (Hey, it’s been a hell of a year, it’s entirely plausible that I’m losing my mind right about now.)

Turns out that the password reset email I had received did have a `hello` address in its _From_ field, but it also had a _Reply-To_ field set to `noreply`. Now, setting aside the uselessness of noreply email addresses for a moment, I must ask: what is the point of using a noreply email address if you’re going to obfuscate the fact that you don’t want users to reply? And then, if you’re going to go through the trouble of setting a Reply-To field, why not set it to something useful and appropriate, like _support@domain_? That seems like a better use of the Reply-To field to me. It allows you to keep the friendly _hello@domain_ address in the From field without breaking the expected behavior when a user replies to the email.

So I go back to the site, frustrated, and search for the word _help_. That’s when I find a _Help Center_ link buried in the site’s footer. It points to `/hc/en-us`, by the way, which I never would have guessed. I used the form at that page to submit my support request and added a note about my experience with the `hello`/`noreply` email, and I hope they take it to heart. I also mentioned the lack of a prominent Help link and a `/help` URI.

My takeaway from this experience is that small inconsistencies and seemingly innocuous technical decisions can go a long way towards turning an already negative experience into one that is downright frustrating and erodes confidence.
